May 9, 2013
Sorry, College Grads, I Probably Won't Hire You
If you're at all interested in media, technology or related fields, 
please learn a little computer programming.

By KIRK MCDONALD

Dear college graduates:

The next month is going to be thrilling as you cross this major
milestone in your education. Enjoy the pomp and circumstance, the
congratulations, and the parties. But when it's all over and you're
ready to go out into the world, you'd probably like to meet me, or
others like me—I'm your next potential dream boss. I run a cool, rapidly
growing company in the digital field, where the work is interesting and
rewarding. But I've got to be honest about some unfortunate news: I'm
probably not going to hire you.

This isn't because I don't have positions that need filling. On the
contrary, I'm constantly searching for talented new employees, and if
someone with the right skills walked into my office, he or she would
likely leave it with a very compelling offer. The problem is that the
right skills are very hard to find. And I'm sorry to say it, dear
graduates, but you probably don't have them.

In part, it's not your fault. If you grew up and went to school in the
United States, you were educated in a system that has eight times as
many high-school football teams as high schools that teach advanced
placement computer-science classes. Things are hardly better in the
universities. According to one recent report, in the next decade
American colleges will mint 40,000 graduates with a bachelor's degree in
computer science, though the U.S. economy is slated to create 120,000
computing jobs that require such degrees. You don't have to be a math
major to do the math: That's three times as many jobs as we have people
qualified to fill them.

It's time to start addressing this crisis. States should provide additional 
resources to train and employ teachers of science, technology, engineering 
and math, as well as increase access to the latest hardware and software 
for elementary and high-school students. Companies—particularly those like 
mine that depend heavily on information technology—need to join the effort 
by sponsoring programs that help schools better train graduates to work in 
a demanding industry. But there's one more piece of the puzzle that's 
missing, and it's the one over which you have the most control: you.

I realize that you've a lot going on, and that the pressures of finding
gainful employment are immense. But understand this, because your future
might very well depend on it: If you want to survive in this economy,
you'd be well-advised to learn how to speak computer code.

I don't mean that you need to become genius programmers, the kind who
hack into NASA's computers for fun. Coding at such a level is a very
particular and rare skill, one that most of us—myself included—don't
possess, just as we don't possess the athletic ability to play for the
New York Knicks.

What we nonexperts do possess is the ability to know enough about how
these information systems work that we can be useful discussing them
with others. Consider this example: Suppose you're sitting in a meeting
with clients, and someone asks you how long a certain digital project is
slated to take.

Unless you understand the fundamentals of what engineers and programmers
do, unless you're familiar enough with the principles and machinations
of coding to know how the back end of the business works, any answer you
give is a guess and therefore probably wrong. Even if your dream job is
in marketing or sales or another department seemingly unrelated to
programming, I'm not going to hire you unless you can at least
understand the basic way my company works. And I'm not alone.

If you want a job in media, technology or a related field, make learning
basic computer language your goal this summer. There are plenty of
services—some free and others affordable—that will set you on your way.

Teach yourself just enough of the grammar and the logic of computer
languages to be able to see the big picture. Get acquainted with APIs.
Dabble in a bit of Python. For most employers, that would be more than
enough. Once you can claim familiarity with at least two programming
languages, start sending out those resumes.

So congratulations again on your achievement—and good luck getting your
real-world education.